# EIP-7623 Handling

Ethereum's Pectra fork introduced [EIP-7623](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7623). This modifies the EVM's calculation of `tx.gasUsed` in order to properly charge for calldata heavy transactions.

The ERC-4337 entrypoint doesn't have insight into this EVM calculation. It can only charge for the gas that is used by the user operation, plus the arbitrary `preVerificationGas` field which is always paid in full. Thus, it may undercharge the UO if the increased calldata cost of EIP-7623 kicks in. To protect against abuse by users posting large calldata payloads through the bundler, the bundler must account for EIP-7623 in its calculation of `perVerificationGas`.

Rundler uses the follow calculation for `perVerificationGas`:

```
let lowest_gas_used = 
    old_pvg + 
    verification_gas_limit * verification_gas_efficiency_reject_threshold + 
    execution_gas_limit * 0.1

if lowest_gas_used < uo_calldata_floor_gas_limit {
    return old_pvg + (uo_calldata_floor_gas_limit - lowest_gas_used)
} else {
    return old_pvg
}
```

* `old_pvg` : `perVerificationGas` calculated without using EIP-7623
* `verification_gas_limit`: total verification gas limit of the UO
* `execution_gas_limit`: total execution gas limit of the UO (execution + postOp)
* `verification_gas_efficiency_reject_threshold`: simulated verification `gasUsed`/`gasLimit` threshold below which the mempool will reject user operations
* `0.1`: the entrypoint will charge 10% of execution gas at a minimum
* `lowest_gas_used`: the estimated lowest gas that this UO can use onchain

In the calculation, if `lowest_gas_used` is less than the EIP-7623 floor, the difference will be added to the `perVerificationGas`. This should only kick in for calldata heavy UOs.

For example:

```
let calldata_floor_zero_byte_gas = 10
let calldata_floor_non_zero_byte_gas = 40

let old_pvg = (30_000 + 4 * num_tokens);
let verification_gas_limit = 80_000;
let execution_gas_limit = 50_000;
let verification_gas_efficiency_reject_threshold = 0.5;

let lowest_gas_used = 4 * num_tokens + 75_000;
let uo_calldata_floor_gas_limit = 10 * num_tokens;

let num_tokens_threshold = 12_500;
let ratio_zeros = 0.6;

let calldata_size_bytes_threshold = 5682
```

In this example, the UO would be able to post 5682 bytes of calldata before the EIP-7623 pricing kicks in.

#### Impacts

The bundler must assume minimum gas usage. If EIP-7623 pricing kicks in, and a UO uses more than its minimum gas usage, UOs will be overcharged for their gas usage.

Because the UO is already calldata heavy, this shouldn't be a significant amount of the UOs total cost. Users that are looking to optimize costs while posting large calldata payloads can consider adjusting their gas estimation values such that their UO uses as close to the minimum gas usage onchain.
